# The impact of inter- and intra-species spore density on germination of the food spoilage fungus Aspergillus niger 
## Classification of Aspergillus spores in co-culture
A subset of approximately 1000 random spores of each *Aspergillus* species was selected from the monoculture datasets. The Euclidean distance in a two-dimensional space was calculated between each spore in the co-culture and the monoculture dataset based on "area" and "contrast". Each spore was assigned to the species with the shortest Euclidean distance and scored 100 to 0. To assess spore overlap between *A. niger* and other *Aspergillus* species in co-culture, we defined a range of spore scores < 50 for each species in co-culture. Then the overlap percentage was calculated by dividing the number of spores falling within this range by the total number of spores in the co-culture. Only spores of *A. niger* were selected for swelling and germ tube formation analysis with a score > 90 to ensure a lack of misclassification with the other species. 

## Identification of A. niger spores in co-cultures
We compared the germination dynamic at low (5,000 spores) and high (40,000 spores) density of *Aspergillus niger*. In the next step, we assessed whether replacing the 35,000 extra *A. niger* spores with those of other aspergilli (*A. clavatus*, *A. nidulans*, *A. terreus*, and *A. oryzae*) has the same effect on the incidence and rate of swelling and germ tube formation of *A. niger* spores. Differences in circularity, surface area, and contrast of the different conidia were determined at t = 1. There was no detectable difference between the circularity of the spores of the different *Aspergillus* species (all ranging between 1.0 and 1.1). In contrast, surface area and contrast did differ between the spores of the aspergilli. Yet, they partly overlapped with a spore percentage of 0.5%, 3.8%, 33.9%, and 34.7% when *A. niger* was mixed with *A. terreus*, *A. nidulans*, *A. oryzae*, and *A. clavatus*, respectively. To overcome the overlap problem, especially in the case of co–cultures with *A. clavatus* and *A. oryzae*, the Euclidean distance was calculated for each spore in the co-culture with those of the monoculture datasets. We only selected the *A. niger* spores with scores > 90 for germination analysis in co-culture. The selected spores of *A. niger* depended on the contrast and surface area of the other *Aspergillus* species in co-culture, and therefore they were different for each co-culture. 

## Maryam Ijadpanahsaravi, Basten L. Snoek
Microbiology and Theoretical Biology and Bioinformatics, Department of Biology, Utrecht University, Padualaan 8, 3584 CH Utrecht, The Netherlands.
[Email me](m.ijadpanahsaravi@uu.nl) ; [Email me](l.b.snoek@uu.nl)


